Choose your course guidance (#3606)
DFE-Digital/get-into-teaching-app: app/views/content/train-to-be-a-teacher/how-to-choose-your-teacher-training.md

---
title: "How to choose your teacher training course"
subcategory: Postgraduate teacher training
description: |-

>   Find out how to choose your postgraduate teacher training course based on your eligibility, the qualifications it awards, and the course provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Find out how to choose your postgraduate teacher training course based on your eligibility, the qualifications you would get, and the course provider.
```
Ignore as needed!

related_content:
    Choosing the right teacher training course provider : "/blog/choosing-the-right-teacher-training-course-provider" 
    Train to teach if you have a degree : "/train-to-be-a-teacher/if-you-have-a-degree"
    Your teacher training application : "/how-to-apply-for-teacher-training/teacher-training-application"
external_content:
    - content/train-to-be-a-teacher/promos/find-your-course
promo_content:
    - content/train-to-be-a-teacher/promos/adviser-promo-degree
navigation: 20.25
navigation_title: How to choose your course
navigation_description: Find out how to choose your postgraduate teacher training course.
keywords:
  - becoming a teacher
  - teacher training
  - pgce
  - qts
  - Teach First
  - Postgraduate teaching apprenticeship

---

All postgraduate teacher training courses include time spent in school placements with some theoretical learning. 

The main differences between courses are: 

> * what you need to get onto the course 

Reviewer: Can we be slightly clearer here? Are we talking about qualifications?

Author: I think we're mainly talking about qualifications and visas, but it might be worth keeping it broad in case there are other eligibility requirements? So we say:

> It's important to check the requirements for each course you apply to, so you do not waste time on an application you’re unlikely to be successful with. 

and then specifically talk about quals and visas, but this could also include things like experience needed for a salaried training course (not sure if there are ever any other eligibility requirements providers can specify @MaeveRoseveare @Kateharries?)

Reviewer 2: Yeah, it can also be things like proving ability to speak English to a good level too. Some people also can start their DBS checks earlier.

> * the qualifications the course awards 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* the qualifications awarded by the course
```
Would this be clearer?

* if the course comes with a salary 
* the course provider 
* if it’s full or part-time 

> 

Reviewer: where the course is located?

Author: was torn about adding this - obviously it's important to candidates, but it's also maybe important enough that we probably don't need to point it out?

Reviewer 2: Yeah, I would say (and we know from research) candidates are always looking at location so I think it's obvious courses will be in located in different areas. Also that's the first question on Find.

## What you need to get onto the course 

Some training courses have specific eligibility requirements. 

It's important to check the requirements for each course you apply to, so you do not waste time on an application you’re unlikely to be successful with. 

### Your qualifications 

All postgraduate teacher training courses require you to have: 

* a degree in any subject 
* GCSEs at grade 4 (C) or above in English and maths (and science if you want to teach primary) 

Most course providers will accept a degree grade of 2:2 or higher, but some may require you to have a 2:1. 

Check each course provider’s requirements on their course page. You can also [find out more about the qualifications you need to teach](/is-teaching-right-for-me/qualifications-you-need-to-teach). 

> ### Your right to work in the UK 

Author: This section I think would tie in nicely with the flight check work going on in Apply, and working more closely with international

You’ll need the right to work or study in the UK to do your teacher training in England. 

> Some training providers offer courses with visa sponsor available. You can filter by ‘visa sponsorship’ to [find courses where visas can be sponsored](https://www.find-postgraduate-teacher-training.service.gov.uk/).   

Reviewer: is `visa sponsor` the right phrase or is it `visa sponsorship`?

Author: one for @laurahermionetennant92

> Some training providers offer courses with visa sponsor available. You can filter by ‘visa sponsorship’ to [find courses where visas can be sponsored](https://www.find-postgraduate-teacher-training.service.gov.uk/).   

Reviewer: Does this sentence need some context beforehand? Eg 'If you are a non-UK citizen (and you don't have the right to work???)?....

I'm not sure what the right wording is but I think as it stands, it's not clear who this is aimed at.

> [Find out more about applying for your visa to train to teach in England](/non-uk-teachers/visas-for-non-uk-trainees).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Find out about applying for your visa to train to teach in England](/non-uk-teachers/visas-for-non-uk-trainees).
```

## The qualifications the course awards 

Most schools in England need you to have [qualified teacher status (QTS)](/what-is-qts) to teach. 

Most teacher training courses will award QTS, but some will just award a [postgraduate certificate in education (PGCE)](/what-is-a-pgce), and some will award both. 

> Without QTS, you may be limiting the schools you’ll be able to teach in and will not receive the same benefits within your training or career. 

Reviewer: I don't think this is quite right - you are not limiting the schools themselves?

Would it be clearer to say you'll be limiting your choice of schools that you'll be able to teach in?

## If the course comes with a salary

### Fee-funded teacher training

Most teacher training courses are fee-funded – this means you have to pay tuition fees and will not earn a salary while you train. 

There are ways to fund your training, for example, through tuition fee and maintenance loans and scholarships and bursaries. 

> You can [find out more about the different ways to fund your training](/funding-and-support).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can [find out about the different ways to fund your training](/funding-and-support).
```

### Salaried teacher training

Some courses are salaried, which means you’ll receive an unqualified teacher’s salary while you train. 

> Places on salaried courses are limited and very competitive. You can [find out more about what you’ll need to get on a salaried teacher training course](/funding-and-support/salaried-teacher-training). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Places on salaried courses are limited and very competitive. You can [find out what you’ll need to get on a salaried teacher training course](/funding-and-support/salaried-teacher-training). 
```

## The course provider 

Your teacher training course might be provided by: 

* a university (sometimes referred to as university-led training) 
* a school or group of schools (sometimes referred to as school-led training, or an apprenticeship) 
* [Teach First](https://www.teachfirst.org.uk/) (a charitable organisation)  

> Once you’ve found a course that you’re interested in, you could talk to the training provider before you apply. For example, you might want to find out: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you’ve found a course that you’re interested in, you can talk to the training provider before you apply. For example, you might want to find out: 
```
Do we want to make this a bit stronger?

> * where your placements and theoretical learning might take place 

Reviewer: Slightly repetitive on `place` - is there any alternative? But very minor - happy for it to stay as is!

> * how many schools you’ll be doing placements in and how long each will last 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* how many schools you’ll be doing placements in and how long each placement will last 
```
how long the placements will last, not the schools?

* the start and finish dates of the course 

It’s a good idea to apply to a range of providers to increase your chances of being successful on a course. 

> For example, if you’re applying for 4 courses, you might want to apply for 2 courses provided by universities, and 2 provided by schools.

Author: Feedback from advisers was that it's sometimes harder to get onto school-led courses than uni-led because their recruitment is more specific/an added bonus, whereas unis have plenty of spaces to fill. So I think it's important to highlight to users to apply to both to give them the best chances of success (if this information is accurate - UCAS do give similar advice about applying to a range of providers).

## Full and part-time courses 

Postgraduate teacher training usually takes 9 months full-time, or 18 to 24 months part-time.

There are usually more full-time courses available than part-time.

> You can [find out more about what to expect on your teacher training](/train-to-be-a-teacher/initial-teacher-training).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can [find out what to expect on your teacher training](/train-to-be-a-teacher/initial-teacher-training).
```
